docs: action button (#702)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/components/action_button.md

btn = ui.action_button("Quiet button", is_quiet=True)
```

## Disabled State

Action Buttons can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the button is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.

```python
from deephaven import ui

btn = ui.action_button("Disabled button", is_disabled=True)
```

## Static Colors

Static-color buttons are available in white and black. They don't dynamically change in response to the user's theme. They should only be used over fixed-color backgrounds, not over theme colors that may change.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def static_buttons():
    return [
        ui.view(
            ui.action_button(
                "White outline",
                static_color="white",
            ),
            background_color="#000066",
            padding="size-300",
        ),
        ui.view(
            ui.action_button(
                "Black outline",
                static_color="black",
            ),
            background_color="#FFFF00",
            padding="size-300",
        ),
    ]

static_buttons_example = static_buttons()
```

## API Reference

```{eval-rst}

> .. dhautofunction:: deephaven.ui.action_button

Reviewer: Since I see you have a new `dhautofunction` here (and in #703), please either
1. Create the docs locally and verify they are created correctly (the easiest way to do this is via `tools/plugin_builder.py`, check out the readme and let me know if you have problems).
2. Wait until #719 is merged then merge main in to this branch so the docs will be checked automatically
Thanks

# Action Button

> Action Buttons allow users to perform an action. They are used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention. Action buttons are the preferred button for taking actions on tables and plots that in some way alter tables, such as applying a filter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action buttons allow users to perform an action. They are used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention. Action buttons are the preferred button for taking actions on tables and plots that in some way alter tables, such as applying a filter.
```

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

btn = ui.action_button("Press me", on_press=lambda: print("Button clicked"))
```

## UI Recommendations

Recommendations for creating clear and effective action buttons:

1. Button text should be clear and concise. No more than 4 words or 20 characters is recommended.
2. Use verbs for button text to indicate the action that will be taken when the button is clicked. For example, "Save", "Delete", or "Add friend", rather than "Ok" or "Cancel". Nouns or adjectives tend to be less clear.
3. Use sentence case for button text with more than one word. For example, "Add friend" instead of "Add Friend" or "ADD FRIEND".
4. No punctuation is needed at the end of the button text.
5. For icon only buttons, include a tooltip

> Consider using [`button`](./button.md) to draw attention to important actions users need to perform or for navigating to a different page. To represent a binary choice, use a [`toggle_button`](./toggle_button.md) instead. If you have a collection of related buttons, you can group them using a [`button_group`](./button_group.md).

Reviewer 2: sshould link to action_group not button_group

Reviewer 2: I would still link to action_group here though

> Consider using [`button`](./button.md) to draw attention to important actions users need to perform or for navigating to a different page. To represent a binary choice, use a [`toggle_button`](./toggle_button.md) instead. If you have a collection of related buttons, you can group them using a [`action_group`](./action_group.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider using [`button`](./button.md) to draw attention to important actions users need to perform or for navigating to a different page. To represent a binary choice, use a [`toggle_button`](./toggle_button.md) instead. If you have a collection of related buttons, you can group them using an [`action_group`](./action_group.md).
```

## Events

`action_button` accept a value to display and can trigger actions based on events such as setting state when pressed. See the [API Reference](#api-reference) for a full list of available events.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def counter():
    count, set_count = use_state(0)
    return ui.action_button(
        f"Pressed {count} times",
        on_press=lambda: set_count(count + 1),
    )

counter_example = counter()
```

## Icon Buttons

> Action Buttons can have icons when necessary to provide additional context. If no visible label is provided (e.g., an icon-only button), an alternative text label must be provided to identify the control for accessibility using the `aria-label` prop. See [icon](./icon.md) for a list of available icons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action buttons can have icons when necessary to provide additional context. If no visible label is provided (e.g., an icon-only button), an alternative text label must be provided to identify the control for accessibility using the `aria-label` prop. See [icon](./icon.md) for a list of available icons.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_button_group():

>     iconAndLabel = ui.button_group(

Reviewer 2: should be action_group not button_group

Author: Sorry I should've made note of it before but I don't think ActionButtons go into ActionGroup. From the [spectrum docs](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-spectrum/ActionGroup.html#actiongroup) the children they put into ActionGroup are items rather than buttons. It seems to behave more like a selector?

In the initial draft of the docs I did put ActionButtons in an ActionGroup but they don't render as expected. The code sample below shows the difference between using ActionButtons (first row) vs Items (second row) in ActionGroup. 

It is very confusing though, I would think that ActionButton belongs in ActionGroup rather than ButtonGroup. Is this a bug on our implementation of ActionGroup or just funny wording on the Adobe components?

```
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_button_group():
    actionGroupWithButtons = ui.action_group(
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugRestart"), aria_label="Restart"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsRecord"), aria_label="Record"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugPause"), aria_label="Play"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugStart"), aria_label="Pause"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsEdit"), aria_label="Edit"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsGear"), aria_label="Configure"),
    )
    actionGroupWithItems = ui.action_group(
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsDebugRestart"), aria_label="Restart"),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsRecord"), aria_label="Record"),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsDebugPause"), aria_label="Play"),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsDebugStart"), aria_label="Pause"),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsEdit"), aria_label="Edit"),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsGear"), aria_label="Configure"),
    )
    return [actionGroupWithButtons, actionGroupWithItems]

my_action_buttons = ui_button_group()
```

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8551c728-309f-4acf-936c-7d3a78d367c5)

Reviewer 2: My bad, you are right. Though that is a little weird, I wonder if we should change that behaviour.

        ui.action_button("Restart", ui.icon("vsDebugRestart")),
        ui.action_button("Record", ui.icon("vsRecord")),
        ui.action_button("Play", ui.icon("vsDebugPause")),
        ui.action_button("Pause", ui.icon("vsDebugStart")),
        ui.action_button("Edit", ui.icon("vsEdit")),
        ui.action_button("Configure", ui.icon("vsGear")),
    )
    iconOnly = ui.button_group(
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugRestart"), aria_label="Restart"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsRecord"), aria_label="Record"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugPause"), aria_label="Play"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsDebugStart"), aria_label="Pause"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsEdit"), aria_label="Edit"),
        ui.action_button(ui.icon("vsGear"), aria_label="Configure"),
    )
    return [iconAndLabel, iconOnly]

my_action_buttons = ui_button_group()
```

## Quiet State

> Action Buttons can have no visible background until they're interacted with. This style works best when a clear layout (vertical stack, table, grid) makes it easy to parse the buttons. Too many quiet components in a small space can be hard to read.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action buttons can have no visible background until they're interacted with. This style works best when a clear layout (vertical stack, table, grid) makes it easy to parse the buttons. Too many quiet components in a small space can be hard to read.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

btn = ui.action_button("Quiet button", is_quiet=True)
```

## Disabled State

> Action Buttons can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the button is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action buttons can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the button is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.
```

# Action Button

> ActionButtons allow users to perform an action. The'yre used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Action Buttons allow users to perform an action. They are used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention
```

> Action Buttons allow users to perform an action. They are used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action Buttons allow users to perform an action. They are used for similar, task-based options within a workflow, and are ideal for interfaces where buttons aren't meant to draw a lot of attention. Action buttons are the preferred button for taking actions on tables and plots that in some way alter tables, such as applying a filter.
```

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

btn = ui.action_button("Press me", on_press=lambda: print("Button clicked"))
```

> ## UI Recommendations
> 
> Recommendations for creating clear and effective action buttons:
> 
> 1. Button text should be clear and concise. No more than 4 words or 20 characters is recommended.
> 2. Use verbs for button text to indicate the action that will be taken when the button is clicked. For example, "Save", "Delete", or "Add friend", rather than "Ok" or "Cancel". Nouns or adjectives tend to be less clear.
> 3. Use sentence case for button text with more than one word. For example, "Add friend" instead of "Add Friend" or "ADD FRIEND".
> 4. No punctuation is needed at the end of the button text.
> 5. Use icons only when necessary, and not as a replacement for text or decoration. Icons should be used to provide additional context to the button's action.
> 6. When presenting choices, use a single filled accent button to suggest to users the recommended choice, paired with outlined primary or secondary buttons for the other options. This helps to visually distinguish the primary action from the secondary actions.
> 7. Use negative buttons sparingly, as they can be visually distracting. They should be used for actions that are destructive or irreversible.
> 
> Consider using [`button`](./button.md) to draw attention to important actions users need to perform or for navigating to a different page. To represent a binary choice, use a [`toggle_button`](./toggle_button.md) instead. If you have a collection of related buttons, you can group them using a [`button_group`](./button_group.md).

Reviewer 2: Not all the same guidelines apply to action button. For example there is not negative styling, and icon only action buttons are perfectly acceptable.

```suggestion
## UI Recommendations

Recommendations for creating effective action buttons:

1. Button text should be clear and concise. No more than 4 words or 20 characters is recommended.
2. Use verbs for button text to indicate the action that will be taken when the button is clicked. For example, "Save", "Delete", or "Add friend", rather than "Ok" or "Cancel". Nouns or adjectives tend to be less clear.
3. Use sentence case for button text with more than one word. For example, "Add friend" instead of "Add Friend" or "ADD FRIEND".
4. No punctuation is needed at the end of the button text.
5. For icon only buttons, include a tooltip.

Consider using [`button`](./button.md) to draw attention to important actions users need to perform or for navigating to a different page. To represent a binary choice, use a [`toggle_button`](./toggle_button.md) instead. If you have a collection of related action buttons, you can group them using a [`action_group`](./action_group.md).
```

## Events

> ActionButtons accept a value to display and can trigger actions based on events such as setting state when pressed. See the [API Reference](#api-reference) for a full list of available events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`action_button` accepts a value to display and can trigger actions based on events such as setting state when pressed. See the [API Reference](#api-reference) for a full list of available events.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def counter():
    count, set_count = use_state(0)
    return ui.action_button(
        f"Pressed {count} times",
        on_press=lambda: set_count(count + 1),
    )

counter_example = counter()
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Please show examples of icon only buttons, and icon + buttons

## Variants

> ActionButtons have different types that change their behaviour in an HTML form: button (default), submit, reset. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`action_button` supports different types that change the button's behavior in an HTML form: button (default), submit, reset. 
```
Similar to the two comments above, it should be "Action Buttons" or the component name in backticks.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def action_button_types():
    count, set_count = ui.use_state(42)

    def handle_submit(data):
        print(f"Hello {data['name']}, you are {data['age']} years old")

    def handle_reset(data):
        print(f"Form reset")

    return ui.form(
        ui.text_field(default_value="Douglas", name="name"),
        ui.number_field(default_value=42, name="age"),
        ui.button_group(
            ui.action_button("Reset", type="reset"),
            ui.action_button("Submit", type="submit"),
        ),
        on_submit=handle_submit,
        on_reset=handle_reset,
    )

action_button_types_example = action_button_types()

> ```

Reviewer 2: Remove this section, these aren't variants in that sense and this isn't a prop that needs an example at all.

> Static-color buttons are available in white and black. They don't dynamically change in response to the user's theme. They should only be used over fixed-color backgrounds, not over theme colors that may change. 

Reviewer 2: Give this a title and place it last.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def static_buttons():
    return [
        ui.view(
            ui.action_button(
                "White outline",
                static_color="white",
            ),
            background_color="#000066",
            padding="size-300",
        ),
        ui.view(
            ui.action_button(
                "Black outline",
                static_color="black",
            ),
            background_color="#FFFF00",
            padding="size-300",
        ),
    ]

static_buttons_example = static_buttons()
```

## Quiet State

> ActionButtons can have no visible background until they're interacted with. This style works best when a clear layout (vertical stack, table, grid) makes it easy to parse the buttons. Too many quiet components in a small space can be hard to read.

Reviewer 2: casing of action button.

```python
from deephaven import ui

btn = ui.action_button("Quiet button", is_quiet=True)
```

## Disabled State

> ActionButtons can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the button is not available for interaction, but should still be visible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ActionButtons can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the action is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.
```
